---
author: Zhiyuan
comments: true
date: 2018-02-17
layout: post
title: Some type setting preference searches
categories: Technology
tags:
- None
---

Got an extra day off. Finally I have moved everything to Ubuntu on one of my working machine. I have been thinking about this for a very long time without making the move. On Jan 24th I wrote a blog about the hard decisions I have to make by with shifting from Windows, which is a life-long companion, to a unix system, for the purpose of reducing overheads on server and development tasks. Yes I have suffered a little bit. But now that I am actually using Ubuntu, the first thing I have found is that it is no where easy. My false belief of Ubuntu being easier to set up comes from all those one-liner installation of Python packages. That is just a minimal part of a system. But there is no going back. It is difficult, but I need to learn how to use it sooner or later. Better start now.

Still, I am very happy I made the move today. As the rational part of me keeps telling me this is not the right time, as I have an interview tomorrow (and I should be preparing for that) and a conference to fly to the day after (and I need to make the slides for presentation). But I would still like to spend roughly 20 minutes to put a mark on the alternatives I am using.

1. Onedrive --> Dropbox:
	I had such a good time with Onedrive, and it comes for free as I have a subscription on office 365. So far it is working just fine.
2. chrome:
	turns out there is a client under ubuntu. No need to change.
3. visual studio:
	Currently my work has nothing to do with cpp.
4. pycharm:
	Client exists.
5. anaconda:
	Client exists.
6. Texstudio:
	Client exists.
7. Office 365:
	I could keep the subscription (which is what I would probably do).

Turns out nothing much has changed. Life just goes on.
